[Inaudible].
You've explored these various tools and modalities.
What is it about Zen that differentiates it for you or that
you find attractive? Right? Because you could, you could reach out to,
or get ahold of your,
one of your magic powers is getting a hold of getting a hold of anybody.
Basically. You want to get ahold of why is it, what is it?
I would say that when I first took my, the,
when I first took the introductory course to Zen,
I appreciated the
mystery behind it, in some sense.
So I was attracted to how it could
be a strict discipline in some ways, like,
you know, like kind of one of those things where you show for Zen,
and if you're not there, the second you're supposed to be there,
they'll keep you out from coming in and you're, you're rejected.
Or if you want to train and actually set residents, they're like,
you have to prove it by sleeping outside for like two months.
Like all these stories that you hear, that Henry actually talks to me,
it can be super hardcore or like,
he let you go to the Zaza in a room and you're,
you're separated by these like cubicle walls. Right? And so you're,
you're sitting in Zaza and it's like seated meditation with your face about a
foot and a half away from a wooden wall. And then if you start to nod off,
they might hit you with a little wooden switch, things like that. Yeah. So,
you know, I kind of,
I was initially attracted that now Henry's discipline that he's into that he's
teaching his is a little bit more laid back, which I, which I can appreciate.
Cause this is like, you know, when you're going to, to,
you had to enter with your right foot when you're entering into set,
like you have to enter into the room,
the correct way you can't cross over the mat and the wrong way,
like there's all these rules, right. Too many roles,
but it's also very Japanese, but I, it is very Japanese, which I,
you know, we all, both of us really love. Um,
but the one thing I will say about Zen is that in, uh,
especially with the way that Henry has been teaching,
at least that I gathered through his book and through our conversation is that
they're,
they make enlightenment less mysterious and less about
being a perfect person and making it actually seemed like it's something that is
attainable by everyone.
And it doesn't have to mean that you're this ultimate spiritual guru.
The second you snap into these different States, States of consciousness.
And that there are these really beautiful moments when people
have this flip, like this flip in their brain, this switch that goes,
and then they're, they're jolted almost shocked into this,
the state of consciousness,
like sometimes like there's these stories of these Zen masters will the look at
a student the right way and the student won't grasp it. And the student can,
they've been stuck, they've been teaching and sitting and they just can't.
And they'll just shake them in a certain way and spontaneously jolt them in the
right way into enlightenment. And as these, these funky little things like that,
that are just like beautiful stories. And like, you know,
you always take a lot of that stuff with a grain of salt,
but coupled with this KoAnn training, which I,
which I highly recommend listening to on, on the waking up app, they're,
they're fantastic by Henry. Um, it, it just it's,
it checks all the boxes that I'm curious about. And I think for me,
the curiosity at this point is the most important thing because it's encouraging
me and it gives me the drive to go and sit for a half hour every morning
consistently. And, you know, that's what it's going to take.
It's going to take a real dedication. And I think that if I can get the proper,
uh, training coupled with these koans, and I don't know, it just,
I I've, I've done the transcendental meditation.
I've done about a few other disciplines and this one for some reason, um,
maybe it's cause I'm a, Japanophile like, I don't know all the reasons,
but I'm attracted to it. Cool.
Do you know what the training is going to look like and what the meditation
sessions are going to look like? Yeah. I mean, they're very simple.
You just set,
so like I'm more interested in what happened,
what happens inside the head? So you sit, maybe you shave your head.
I would love to see you the shaved head. That'd be hilarious. Uh,
so we can kind of thing. Yeah, we can, we can be cue balls together.
Uh, get you some black robes with some, some white. Interlinings be good.
Good luck for you. Uh, you kind of already have that.
I was gonna say, you see me with robes on people we've been in rubs together.
You already got that one, but okay. You sit and then what,
what happens on the inside? So I think there's a, there's a few things. One, um,
the question initially is there is there's kind of table stakes to,
to play in the arena. And I would say like to,
to even get to that point, um, at least for, for me,
when I've, what I've been told and what I can gather, and I'm, I'm,
I'm saying this as someone that is well,
pretty new novice to this new sect of Zen, um,
it's just sitting and trying to quiet the mind, you know,
and that means counting meditations, um, you know,
counting to 10 and repeating yourself, uh, following the breath. Uh it's,
it's that classic Zen posture of looking at the wall, not closing your eyes,
kind of glancing somewhat downward towards the ground with a, uh,
fuzzy awareness of everything going on in the room,
but no strict focus on any one object it's saying to yourself,
a thought a distraction it's okay. It is, uh,
the weights in a gym is what I need to get to the next level of, of, of this.
And so not getting upset and,
and getting the mind to where it's a little bit malleable and kind of getting to
that place where this, the CITs are becoming, uh,
longer in duration, but also the mind is calming a bit.
I think Henry said it best in his book. Actually,
this is a I'm going to butcher it, but I'll, I'll, I'll,
I'll tell you the gist of it.
He said the Zen is like pulling the plug,
being a boat in a bathtub and pulling the plug of the drain.
And initially you kind of just notice a little bit of swirling,
a little bit of like movement of the boat.
And then you look around and you see the walls of the bathtub are a little bit
higher and you're like, Oh, that's odd.
And then you notice a little bit more movement and all of a sudden you start to
twist.
And then all of a sudden you notice that there's a swirl going down the drain.
And then there is the total annihilation of all things,
and that's where you're headed, but you don't,
but you have to sit at the surface for a while and just kind of like, you know,
slowly realize that even though you're not feeling it,
the daily practice is unplugging the drain and you will eventually get there.
So I'm not gonna find this terrifying description. Oh dude,
wait till you read his book,
his description of his last traunch of this
passing into this.
I think you would actually really like it because it reminds me of a lot of our
conversations that you've had around like Iowasca and some of the ego
just disintegrating and cattle, death control deaths.
And he's getting that without any drugs, man, just like intense,
like multi-day meditation kind of things that happen, you know, for, for,
I guess a lot of reasons. I think that scares me more because with,
with a T you're like, all right,
I'm going to go to crazy town for four to six hours earth time.
And then I'll be back to some semblance of like normal
computation and absorption of what we call reality.
But with the Zen practice, with that description, it's,
it's almost like a slow motion psychotic break that you've
engineered for yourself. And that scares the living out of me. So that's,
I don't know how to back out of that. I don't know how to yeah. Yeah. You can't,
that's the thing. That's crazy, dude.
When you read this book and you get to that point,
I'm freaked out by this because when you go there,
all of a sudden you're viewing the world as an illusion,
as a completely different thing than you ever have before.
And there's no going back. What does Daria think about this?
Is she supportive? Yeah.
She listened to my interview with him when I did the podcast. And she was like,
yeah, he sounds amazing. And this is the path you want to go. Like,
I support it. I mean, I don't think she's not worried about you. Like,
I don't know. So we're in your shirt backwards and picking it Naval, lint,
like staring blankly at like the wall Paul, you have to, you have,
you have to listen to his post analysis of what happened because he wrote the
book after all this happened.
And I'm be curious to know if you would enjoy this world. I think you would.
It sounds beautiful.
Like every moment is a new and just glistening and
there's so much, it's fascinating. I'm not a butcher at all.
I think much like you with me and my various, uh,
psychedelic experiments of which there are now many, many, many, many thousands.
Let me think for you. It's a lot. And uh,
you've kind of let me be the Guinea pig.
I think I'll let you be the first monkey shot in a space on this slow motion.
Engineered, psychotic break. Tell me how that goes. Yeah. I mean,
you're here to support, I think, well,
it's not like you're going to see me in six months and like,
I'm just going to be levitating. Like this is going to be like a, if I,
if I do it correctly, this is going to be like a 30 year kind of journey,
you know, to get to these, these places or, you know, who knows there's no,
there's no pinning a date unless he,
unless he like grabs you by your ears and shakes your head and gives you the,
the Highlander quickening, like you were describing. I love that actually
grabbed you by your eyebrows and bite your upper lip and like throw you off your
chair. It's crazy.